# CFD-cpump
Computational fluid dynamics simulations
> Initially intended to be simulation for CFD through centrifugal pump - it'd also include various CFD simulations based on theory and articles I've read. These simulations would be based on crystallizers, reactions and other implementations of CFD. Moore's law has opened the floodgates of CFD simulations. This should be fun.
Terms and topics you will need to understand: Navier-Stokes equations, law of conservation of mass, first law of thermodynamics (law of conservation of energy), fluid flow, laminar flow, turbulent flow, aerodynamics, viscosity, heat transfer, denisity, velocity, centrifugal pumps, ...

## Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Background
Computational fluid dynamics is a branch of mathematics that deals with the motion of fluids: it is basically the process of mathematically modeling a physical phenomenon involving fluid flow and solving it numerically using data structures and computing. CFD is often used in conjunction with experimental and analytical methods to understand and optimize fluid flow.
Computational fluid dynamics can be used to simulate airflow around complex objects, such as aircraft wings or turbine blades, and to optimize the performance of centrifugal pumps. CFD is also often used in weather prediction and climate modeling. The history of CFD is closely entwined with the history of numerical analysis, as early researchers attempted to solve fluid dynamics problems by hand using analog computers. Today, CFD is an essential tool for engineers and scientists working in a wide range of fields.

### Simulation 1: Computational Fluid Dynamics simulation through a centrifugal Pump 
A Centrifugal pump is a device useed to move fluids by centrifugal force.
The fluid is drawn into the pump by centrifugal force, which then spins the fluid around an impeller. Fluid flow is generated by the impeller, which transfers energy to the fluid. This type of pump is typically used to move large volumes of fluid, such as in industrial applications and are highly effective at moving fluids with low viscosity such as water. 
This model simulates fluid flow through a centrifugal pump.
**Type of flow: Incrompressible fluid flow**

#### SimScale Simulation





## Built With

- SimScale
- Python

## Live Demos




## Getting Started
To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

### Setup

### Install

### Usage

### Run tests

### Deployment


## References


## Authors

👤 **Maya D. - child of God**

- GitHub: [@mcrd25](https://github.com/mcrd25)
- LinkedIn: [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/mayadouglas)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](../../issues/).

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if you like this project!

## Acknowledgments



## 📝 License

This project is [MIT](./LICENSE) licensed.
